Structure we are going to get into you know we're now at the phase we're building to sell all our life
right now we're our local deli wireframe section.
Now into some of the heavier tools I'm introducing you to the best wireframe tool because of this feature
set top box.
Right now we're just going to focus on JoCo this lecture I'm sure you see how it works you know roughly
where do you find your pages and your canvas.
Just trying to get oriented where you're not going to learn anything substantial of selection.
You should open up perfectly fine with what you write to not just get in there it's hours trying to
tinker around to show you what you need.
All right.
OK so let me show you Peter Oko and give you a very basic kind of overview of how you would get into
the service and how you would use it to make your rapid prototypes or to make your wireframe.
Now keep a minimum keep in mind I'm picking this because it's the most versatile of the wire framing
prototyping tools out there.
There's other ones that are better in certain categories this is the best because it has the best features.
Now you can sign up with a free trial the 30 day price is not particularly expensive I think it's only
like $12 a free trial out of credit card so you can try it out for 30 days.
Again if you check something else out there that's perfectly fine.
It's helpful to sign up if you want to follow along on this these lectures at the same time whatever
I'm teaching you in Tokyo it's pretty much valid with any other one any other prototyping or wire for
me.
They all kind of use the same techniques and the same basic kind of understanding's.
So you would just sign up giving them your email address but I've already signed up so what you generally
just do is you go to my prototypes OK so they'll hit you up to sign up.
But here we are.
So basically just like any other web service I can create web prototype create a mobile prototype and
then create a project folder if I want to be able to store my prototypes together.
They use prototype as a generic term meaning what basically it means that you can add interactions you
can add basic designs and you can make it easy you can easily move from page to page but you can also
make a low fidelity wireframe tool.
Same exact process so different from creating a web and mobile is that it's automatically going to start
you off with what they call stencils.
So in balsamic they're literally just called like elements in this they call them stencils and a stencil
is just any type of element that you would use to show a button or show a page show a box show tax those
are all stencils.
They give you a different stencil set immediately but you can always access both stencil sites and then
when they start you off with a smaller screen so they automatically put the screen or the canvas size
to what your wireframe should be.
That's helpful because you don't have to like look up or you know exactly what the resolution for your
mobile app is.
Keep in mind this doesn't actually work for every single mobile in the sense that you know Samsung Galaxy
want is a different size and an iPhone 4.
It's just going to start you off with a generic size.
So we can always just we can take a cruise with the web prototype version.
Now what's interesting about JoCo And another thing I like about it is that it's all web based.
Meaning that you can so long as you have your laptop or anyone else's computers only have access to
the Internet you can work on your prototypes and your wireframe but one of the downsides of both Somma
and I know that they just did release a online version is that they have to download it onto your computer
and it's only Mac.
So this is the way that it works.
When we create a page you would call it a page.
Now in like other ones you might just have a gigantic canvas you might just throw everything on there
and save it as one PTF and then move on to a new tab.
Then you're just going to call pages.
So this is what a page looks like.
So a page this is the standard page.
It looks like the grid paper that we used before when we are sketching them out physically it automatically
just shows me a common resolution for web and mobile browsers.
Keep in mind obviously someone on a Mac Book 11 inches going to have something different than someone
on a Chromebook PC.
But it's a good starting point.
So I'll go back to the editor and we're going to jump into this in just a second.
But that's what a page looks like.
Literally once I start creating a page here that's what I would call page.
I want to start from scratch.
Could another one just create another page.
OK so here is where you would list start your folder so say I was making a prototype and it had multiple
pages I could create a folder and put all of those in there and that's a great way of organizing your
stuff.
Keep in mind guys if you do multiple ideas there are multiple prototypes and you throw them all together
if you're not labeling properly you can get very confused as to which ones go to where.
Because you know if you're making two different web sites you might have a log in page for each single
one and you might forget to label that specifically to which project it's.
So screen flows.
What those are are they're used to take all of your pages up here and then to visually display them
on a board and then you draw arrows between the two or between all your pages a show or relationship.
It's very similar to creating a map.
Later we're going to create a site map but I'm going to show you how I do it because the assumption
is by the time you make your sitemap have all the other pages made you do your sitemap at the beginning.
You can do at the end doesn't really matter.
Screenplays are very helpful for developers.
They're not particularly helpful for designers although you know more information is always better but
typically the screenplay is just literally like a representation of pages or floating in space with
arrows pointing to them.
It helps to like things like users sign up for instance if I'm signing up to a page where I can do is
like a show page one being my log in page 2.
Now that I'm logged in my options page 3 if I click on this where does it take me to.
It seems very useful for things like firearms as well.
No layers.
All the right tools will operate in a layer system if you use balsamic.
You'll notice that they don't label layers they just have them automatically stacked and then all you
do is push things down and up through layers like this one that you have the option of creating layers
and creating a system called Global layers and I'll explain that to you later on as we dive into the
editor global players.
In general though what that means is you can create a layer and it has stencils.
Basically that means if I created a bunch of objects on a page I could decide that those are actually
a layer then I can very easily use those layers later on different pages custom stencils.
This is also something that's specific to Oko.
You can create your own stencils and I'll show you later how you can do that.
It is quite helpful if you really want to have a customized set of stencils.
If you know you have to make 30 pages of an application and you know you're only using the same say
like 15 things over and over again you can create custom since.
It'll save you a lot of time.
OK so I will dive right in the editor.
OK so the editor looks pretty much like any other wireframe thing too if you have to use them.
Here is nice save the bread crumbs and bread crumbs means as it shows the trail through the screens
that you're going through.
So if I wanted to go back I could very easily just go back to my prototype here and I'm again looking
at that screen and we're just at and then I can jump right back into my page.
I suggest that you always always label every single page you make.
And so what you can do is just double tap.
So I could say test page.
This is always very very helpful.
Please don't get lazy it will come and bite you later.
But you know this is usually how this works.
This area right here is called the canvas and a canvas is you know it's kind of it's an art term.
But designers use it all the time it's whatever you're painting on it's whatever you're designing on
or whatever you're writing on that is your canvas.
OK.
So on the left hand side we just have a column and these are the stencil.
So before if you didn't know what I meant by sensel these are what they are.
You have coarse stencils static stencils and then icons stencils and other things.
Here's where we will create custom stencils of show you that in another lecture.
But essentially what these are things that I can literally pick up and grab and move on to the canvas
and that's how I'm going to visually put together my wireframe so that the question itself is helpful
because these are things that every single page has every single page is going to be taxed.
So I can throw text on here and I can edit it
and here what I want to do is since this is just text what they mean is that you want to use this any
time you want to make custom text you know anytime you want to use something that you don't want to
be specific about how long it is how short it is what font it is what color it is.
This is what we're going to use here constantly reaching up and grabbing this.
But if you want to be more specific and say you want to put a paragraph of text you can do things like
this automatically creates you a text block and then you can shorten it if you want it to be shorter.
And it's a good time saver.
Now you might think oh well that saved me was like 10 seconds.
Trust me it adds up when you're wyer framing and same similar.
Here we have things like headlines and I can pull in a headline and this is automatically set to a size
that's helpful for me so if I'm making a landing page I can use a headline right here and like say put
it up at the top right here and then headline two is easy because that's almost always a subtitle.
So I can always make my subtitle like this or maybe even use a headline theory.